---
title: "AdventofCode Day 3: No Matter How You Slice It"
date: 2018-12-04T01:30:19+01:00
draft: true
---
# Part 1

The main problem for me of the first part of [Day 3](https://adventofcode.com/2018/day/3) was processing the input, which contains the id, coordinates and dimensions of each rectangle:

```
...
#1332 @ 556,501: 15x18
#1333 @ 61,800: 23x29
#1334 @ 3,578: 15x23
...
```
My first working, but kind of ugly, solution looked like this:

```python
for line in lines:
     tmp = line.split()
     idd = int(tmp[0].strip('#'))
     x,y = map(int,(tmp[2].strip(":").split(",")))
     xr,yr = map(int,tmp[3].split("x"))
     inp.append([idd,x,y,xr,yr])
```
Later, i thought about using *regExps*, and after some google and try'n'error my final solution looks much better to me.

```python
inpm = map(lambda s:map(int, re.findall(r'-?\d+',s)),lines) 
for (idd, x, y, dx,dy) in inpm:
    inp.append([idd,x,y,dx,dy])
```
I'm pretty sure there is still room for lots of improvement, but for now, i`m satisfied with this solution. The ```re.findall``` extracts all matching occurences of the regExp. ```-?``` accepts optional negative numbers, and ```\d+``` matches all numbers. 

The actual solution of the problem is very short:

```python
def part1():
    for _,x,y,dx,dy in inp:
        rect[x:x+dx,y:y+dy] += 1
    return np.sum(rect>1)
```
Using ```numpy.array```, for each rectangle the covered cells are added 1, thus all cells containing a value greater than 1 are covered by two or more rectangles. ```np.sum(rect>1)``` computes the number of these cells.

# Part 2

My solution for the second part of the problem is very brute force. Again, i iterate over all the rectangles and check whether all covered cells equal one, e.g. no other rectangle intersects.

```python
def part2():
    for idd,x,y,dx,dy in inp:
        if np.all(rect[x:x+dx, y:y+dy]==1):
            return idd
```

# Conclusion

For now i am quite satisfied. I have solved all problems so far without hints or looking up the solution, i've learned a lot about python and coding, i have become quite addicted and it`s lots of fun. The problems have taken me longer to solve than i hoped for, but then i haven't tackled problems for quite a while.
